## Preface

I do not want to be writing this. There are a number of things I’d much rather be doing. The future (world of bits) will be built out somewhere whether it be the US, Israel or a collection of expat communities living a nomadic existence in the sun. It almost certainly won’t be the UK and hence writing this seems like a complete waste of my time. Why not just write it off as a (very large) sunk cost and focus on the future? But what person would I be if I left the equivalents of younger me to rot in the same (or worse) circumstances that I rotted in? I feel like I have a responsibility to those equivalents of younger me in a way that no one took responsibility for the prospects of actual younger me. Hopefully it will make a difference to someone. At the very least it will leave me with a clearer conscience.

## Why don't you commit suicide?

In Viktor Frankl’s Man’s Search For Meaning the preface describes the author-psychiatrist asking his patients “Why do you not commit suicide?”. It is a question I’ve struggled with for over a decade now even though I only recently opened this book. I still don’t have an answer. The best I can come up with is to not to disappoint G*d. But the world has been cripplingly disappointing to me from closest family and friends to my country to strangers I’ve asked the smallest favor from. Although the popular narrative is that slavery was ended and Jewish prisoners were freed from concentration camps it feels to me like neither has happened. It feels to me that slavery and concentration camps have just been expanded and franchised to include most of the world without people realizing. Arguably small pockets still exist where smart people are encouraged to be ambitious and work together to solve problems, create riches and that trite “change the world”. But even those pockets seem to end up being trashed or embroiled in wars after a period of time and I wasn’t able to gain long term access to those places regardless. If anything this state of affairs is even worse mentally and psychologically than the original. At least with slavery and concentration camps everyone could see with their own eyes where they were, could relate to each other and build relationships based on a shared reality. Imagine being in a concentration camp and trying to convince your fellow prisoner that they were even in a concentration camp in the first place. If they don’t ever venture to the mental walls of their cell the prospect seems farcical to them. 

The cruelty of prison guards can vary hugely from prison to prison. I think they are especially cruel in the UK. To start with UK citizens’ freedoms are curtailed to a much greater extent in comparison to say US citizens. There is only one game in town and that is the state. You are forced to rely on the state for everything from your physical protection to your health and a large part of the population also relies on the state for their livelihood. The state continues to demonstrate that it is either completely incompetent, malicious or both and nothing happens. Whether that be destroying the economy with years of Covid lockdowns, lying to its population that new vaccines don’t present risks or frightening its population that leaving a large bloc of nations (EU) was existential the state proves over and over and over again that it is totally useless. You would expect that most people who succeed in the state know this and they’ve long given up on any sense of patriotism or national service and they are purely there because it is the only way to enrich themselves.

Assuming that the hypothesis is right and you’re in a prison without a specified term what should one do?  Try to make a rush for the escape? Buckle down and try to make the most of it? Try to chip away at your prison walls month by month Shawshank Redemption style? I’ve tried the first option. I’ve tried to get US citizenship and I’ve tried to get Israeli citizenship. Although theoretically nothing is impossible those prospects don’t seem promising currently without anyone in a position to provide assistance. Do I have any evidence to suggest the UK will change or provide more hope in the coming years? Absolutely zero. If anything I think it will get worse as it has decade on decade. Once the state objective becomes managed decline and clinging to the US to maintain relevance it becomes harder and harder to turn that oil tanker around. Although Brexit briefly provided a spark of hope and a potential launchpad to change direction that spark was very quickly snuffed out by the state, Covid and politicians who were more than happy to do the state’s bidding in gaslighting the UK population.

So that leaves the options of buckling down and chipping away at the walls. For me buckling down is sharpening the tools that should be valuable in an idealized world where you were allowed to use those tools. The digital world (the world of bits) is only two or three decades old which is absolutely nothing in comparison to the millennia of the world of atoms. Chipping away at the walls is this book. I may personally never escape but my attempts to chip away could lead to someone in the future continuing where I left off. When I look at a photo of me as a young boy I pity him for what he’s still got to go through. If there’s a similar young boy out there today with similar aspirations, similar intelligence and similar hope that he can make something of himself one day hopefully he can pick up the chipping where I left it and maybe even make it to the other end.

## UK royalty and the nepotism leakage

The UK media acts as if the royal family is paying them millions of dollars per day to ensure full page spreads like advertisers do. They will ask inane questions like “Is that the end for Meghan and Harry?” knowing full well that they will continue to cover their every movement, appearance and business venture ensuring that they continue to have relevance in the mindshare of their readers for the rest of their lifetimes. Why is the obvious question. An innocent capitalistic motivation would be that their readers have an unhealthy obsession with Meghan and Harry and they are merely serving up what their readers and customers want. An innocent patriotic like motivation would be that nothing else is happening in the country and the only thing that the UK has anymore that the rest of the world pays attention to is the royal family. Hence keep promoting the only asset the UK has in an attempt to attract eyeballs and attention overseas. Maybe there is some truth in those innocent explanations. But the more malign explanation is that the royal family is a critical piece of the state and the state wants to keep the population distracted with meaningless stories. The state doesn’t want the population to be informed, it doesn’t want the population focusing on their own lives and working hard to better their lives. It wants the population to stay captive to the state and with that objective the more helpless and the more useless the population becomes the better. Become 24/7 experts on the movements of Meghan and Harry and you are of no use to anyone other than as a brainwashed tool for the state.

I have always been split on UK royalty. In one sense it is a symbol of longevity and the merits of maintaining traditions and principles that prevented the turmoil and chaos that engulfed other nations when they threw out those traditions and principles. But in another sense it entrenches the nepotism and the quashing of ambition from the head of state down. If you could somehow maintain the symbol of longevity and tradition without it leaking into every facet of society and poisoning what theoretically should be a capitalistic, meritocratic and striving society it would be a net asset. But it leaks. The fawning over people who don’t seem to have any particular talents, insights or achievements other than they were born to the right people happens everywhere. Other than sport and until recently entertainment (both conveniently keeping the population on the sofa) which do at least show repeated examples of individuals rising from all walks of life to the top of their industries you’d be hard stretched to find an industry where who you were born to and who you know wasn’t a 100x predictor on future success over intelligence or innate ability. But who you know isn’t entirely determined by who you were born to, right? No it isn’t. But compare Individual X who went to the highest fee paying school to Individual Y who went to the local state school. Individual X not only meets other wealthy, influential people at home through dinner parties and such like, he is now meeting the only people who have a chance of being wealthy and influential in the future, the children of parents who are wealthy and influential. The only chance Individual Y gets of meeting the Individual Xs is at a top university where Individual Y somehow overcomes the odds of passing the admission tests without Individual X’s expensive tuition. Then enter the sense of superiority, the expensive wardrobe, the access to the most exclusive members clubs and the best Individual Y can hope for is to be kept around for the amusement. All this to meet individual Xs who may not have much intelligence or innate ability and probably aren’t motivated by anything because they have already have everything. So what was the point?

A reoccurring theme of this book will be what I wish I’d been told when I was young and what I wish didn’t take me two decades of my life to realize. The fact that it has taken me this long is a complete failure of my family, friendship groups, education system, national media, political system and indeed my country. Although I also have to take a large chunk of the responsibility the fact that no one in any facet of my life could point me in the right direction and that no one else was pursuing these same questions just shows how effective the state has been at ruthlessly sucking up any sense of ambition in anyone who wasn’t born into wealth and influence. 

## The star upon the hill

I definitely visited Israel later than I should have. When I try to dissect the reasons for only visiting in 2019 the UK media certainly played a large part. You’d struggle to find one TV program or one news report in the UK on the beauty and aspiration of the Israeli project. It was a never ending diet of terrorist attacks and military responses, supposedly warmongering Israeli leaders and innocent, helpless Arab victims in Gaza and the West Bank being unnecessarily carpet bombed. The worst perpetuator was the BBC, that supposed perfectly neutral paragon of virtue that I and everyone else in the UK is forced to fund under the threat of jail. It certainly seems that populations in Gaza and the West Bank have been radicalized against Israel and Jews generally but the BBC and other UK media outlets have done their best over the years to follow their example in the UK. When I see the anti Israel and anti Jewish sentiment in the UK in 2024 I see it is an inevitable consequence of the brainwashing from the BBC and other slightly less extreme UK media outlets that you could probably group as an entity within the UK “state”.

However I personally have to take a large part of the responsibility myself. Why didn’t I want to explore my Jewish identity on my father’s side? Why didn’t I think more about and study religion and religious texts more? When I repeatedly passed through these phases of hopelessness why didn’t I explore religion and the work of religious leaders? I don’t know. Neither of my parents were religious and being caught between two religions (in my case Judaism and Christianity) I ended up exploring neither. But that is on me. My upbringing and the tools of the state definitely played a part but I really should have been stronger and not been a victim to circumstance here.

Regardless of how long it took to me to get there my impressions of Israel shifted nearly 180 degrees on visiting. Is there a terrorist threat and military responses that result in death and injury that would sadden anyone with a heart? Undoubtedly. But to focus exclusively on that at the expense of the positive is like focusing entirely on G*d’s seeming indifference to suffering in the bible and ignoring the act of creation in the first place. The story of the Israeli nation state is a modern day miracle. Take one of the most heinous attempts to wipe out a race and a religion in human history (the Holocaust) and turn it into a rebuilding of the land of the Jewish people that they have yearned to return to for millennia. I will get into the Herzl vision, the military victories against the odds, the leaders who took Israel to a stronger position than the position they found it and the honing of the skills that will ensure Israel’s future but even ignoring all that. Is there anything that better embodies the human spirit than turning unbearable pain and suffering into something beautiful? A truly existential threat to the future of a race and a religion that wiped out a third of its global population and turning that into a beacon of hope? In the land of Abraham, Moses and Jesus? A mere mortal (or at least the vast majority of mere mortals) couldn’t imagine it.

## Dancing when others can’t hear the music

One of the most endearing details I read when first exploring Israel on a Birthright trip was accounts of Theodor Herzl traipsing round wealthy Jewish benefactors such as the Rothschild family effectively pitching for funding for a new Israeli nation state in the 19th century decades before it was formed and at a time when the prospect seemed farcical. For a nation state that over a century later would be labelled the “Startup Nation” for its incubation of disproportionately successful technology startups. Not only would Herzl not see that but he didn’t really see any fruits of his labor as he died in 1904 with the nation state of Israel only being formed in 1948. Now he has a Mount named after him in Jerusalem with his tomb at the top but during his lifetime he was undoubtedly dismissed as a crank rather than a visionary. Is that a happy or a sad tale for him personally? Depends on your priorities I guess. Would you rather live an affluent lifestyle and ensure your descendants live an affluent lifestyle or would you prefer to play a part in the history of your people regardless of whether you see any personal benefit in your lifetime? The vast majority would choose the former but that might change on their deathbed or on a meeting with their maker. David Goggins, the American retired Navy Seal and ultramarathon runner has talked in his books about the role that future meeting plays in motivating him. Can you do anything that brings you closer to G*d than attempting godlike feats down here on earth before your own light goes out? 

It sounds simple but it is anything but. Every single force especially in a country like a UK in 2024 is pulling you in the opposite direction towards mediocrity and being an obedient servant to the state. In times when the state is itself ambitious and competent, trying to manage a global empire or attempting to emerge victorious from a world war that might work well. But in times when the state stands for nothing other than managed decline and is determined to drag its citizens into the abyss with it there is nothing worse. You can’t overthrow it, it is becoming harder and harder over time to exit and if you fail to exit it will drag you and your descendants into a state of permanent poverty and hopelessness.

At this point I’m not sure why nearly every Jew in the UK and other countries around the world doesn’t have a passport to the only Jewish nation state on the planet even if it is held merely as a hedge against future waves of antisemitism in their home country. You only have to have a basic grasp of history to understand that domestic economic troubles or international military conflicts often drive these waves of antisemitism as the state looks for individuals or groups of individuals to pass the blame to. In addition in the UK there has been a large influx of Arab, Muslim immigrants (both legal and illegal) that threatens to change societal and political dynamics and hence the potential safety of Jews in the UK for generations. Perhaps others will encounter what I did where UK rabbis block UK citizens from using Israel’s The Law of Return’s grandparent clause to obtain an Israeli passport. But not trying seems neglectful to me. UK rabbis will have to ultimately answer to their maker on why they are choosing to block those attempts with UK safety concerns rising but it is otherwise hard to speculate on their reasons for doing so.

## Finding your community

But let’s say your ethnicity or religion doesn’t entitle you to a different passport (or people block you from a passport you are entitled to). What do you do if your home state’s objectives aren’t aligned with your personal goals and ambitions and actively works against you from attempting them? I’ll assume here that you don’t have the privilege of a US passport as that would allow you to move from state to state in the US. The first step is to find your community online and then work out where they are geographically located. Whoever you are, whether you are Theodor Herzl or David Goggins you need to find people who share similar interests, are better than you at certain skills and will test your ideas. Although ultimately Herzl and Goggins settled into a more lonely experience pursuing their goals the road to success was littered with interactions with individuals who were smarter, more able, more informed and more effective at the time of those interactions. It is self defeating trying to achieve a goal in a vacuum when there are people who are better than you already working on similar goals. Get to know who those people are first. Until you understand your community, understand what it is missing and start to get frustrated by their standards or lack of their ambition it is too early to cut yourself off. 

The world is a big place and although escape routes are being closed off all the time there are still expat communities in places like Central and South America and Asia which have relaxed entry and visa requirements, are relatively cheap to live in and have good internet access. Your community probably already has a presence in some of these places but even if it doesn’t it is only a matter of time before your community starts to gravitate to places where they can meet and collaborate in person. Be the first and encourage other members of your community to join you.

## Meritocracy versus “diversity”

At least in the West in 2024 “diversity” has triumphed over meritocracy. “Diversity” has been twisted into a painting by numbers “Let’s have one black girl, one brown homosexual, one Asian transexual”. That is not meritocracy and it isn’t even getting the fruits of diversity. A meritocracy measures the output and attempts to maximize that output. A healthy diverse meritocracy doesn’t care about superficialities like color of skin, gender or sexuality. It is chasing ambitious goals that needs the smartest and the hardest working and it can’t afford to make compromises to meet the painting by numbers requirements. The ticket to the game is competence, ambition and aspiration to continuously improve. If someone has a ticket to the game then different perspectives can be a net positive especially if it is challenging and testing each other’s viewpoints. But it is the output that matters. The obsession with superficial inputs is driving the West into the ground. As always it is hard to tell what is driving the “diversity” movement in the West. Is it incompetent or malicious forces within the state? Is it external forces from outside the state that are determined to cause the West’s demise? I don’t know. But if you are in an environment which cares more about the color of your skin, gender and sexuality over your potential and your work ethic you need to escape from that environment as quickly as possible. We often see our organisation or our country as the entire world but it is only a tiny part. When you start to see things that set your personal alarms off you really need to ask yourself “Am I ok with this? Does this align with the principles I want to live my life by? Can I thrive in this environment?” Because if the answer is no you need to get out of there yesterday.

Israel is not a perfect place, no such place exists. But somehow despite it feeling like a country in the collective West it is managing to not succumb to the “diversity” narrative rotting away at the West’s previous exceptionalism. Yet on actual diversity metrics it seems to be performing exceptionally well. It had one of the earliest female Prime Ministers (1969-1974) in Golda Meir predating the UK’s Margaret Thatcher by a decade. Both genders are expected to complete military service before their university studies and serve their country when required. Despite having the Jewish religion as a centerpiece for the state there are parts of Israel such as Tel Aviv which are typically atheist or agnostic where Gay Pride Week is celebrated. It also maintains an Arab population of approximately 20 percent despite being accused of seeking religious and ethnic purity by its detractors. On actual diversity metrics it is certainly a shining light in the Middle East and one could argue in the collective West as well despite the West’s obsession with “diversity”. How has it managed this? I believe it is because the Israeli state has a purpose and can’t afford to allow the meritocracy to decay. It has military threats on its borders and sometimes within its borders. Without access to natural resources or a historic role in global trade or finance it has to capitalize on new opportunities, new technologies and the new frontier that has opened up in the world of bits. Necessity is the mother of invention and a bulwark against the rot setting in in the West. Do I think the West and specifically the US is a lost cause on the road to inevitable decline? No. But the further it falls away from the example being set in Israel and the longer it goes without a severe course correction the more inevitable that decline becomes. I have been flabbergasted by Western leaders lecturing Israel on military matters as they preside over their own country sliding into decay, incompetence and increasing irrelevance. The saying "Clean your home first before complaining about others" comes to mind.

What I suspect has also happened is the world has bifurcated into the global majority penned in by nation state boundaries and the global super rich who consider the nation state, passports, patriotism, taxes and public services as cute anachronisms from a bygone era. They are still utilized as tools to keep the global majority in their pens but they impose zero constraints or assumed responsibilities on the super rich. The more dysfunctional you can make the management of those pens the more noise there is to distract the global majority from the realization that they are second class citizens and the laws that apply to them don’t apply to the global super rich. Under this hypothesis narratives like “diversity”, the normalisation of gender transition and climate change where the global majority are told to worry about cows farting as the super rich’s private planes fly over that cow start to make sense. The super rich aren’t stupid enough to actually believe these narratives but they are used to spread discord in the pens and prevent sane, smart people from arriving at the truth. Political leaders are more than happy to do the super rich’s bidding because it either provides them entertainment or an ego boost if they are already part of the super rich and if they aren’t it offers them a route to make it there when no such other route exists. As a nation state Israel is not immune to these forces but it is well placed to suffer the least. If there is a nation state that the super rich care about (or specifically the subset of the super rich that is religious Jewish) it is Israel. It is part of the Jewish identity being the only Jewish state and although Christians or Muslims may have an affinity to a particular nation state there are a large number to choose from. If one descends into poverty and chaos they can just spend more time in a different one.

This hints at the specific moral challenge I and presumably others not born into the super rich have or will have. If you have grown up in a nation state and bought into values that the super rich don’t hold what do you do? Do you shed them and do everything in your power to escape from your pen perhaps finding some way to cling onto the super rich if that is the only escape route? Or do you hold onto those values knowing this risks being trapped inside and being subject to increasing levels of chaos and poverty? Both seem unsatisfactory to me and hence a dual strategy seems the only way forward. You have to hedge the fact that the super rich could decide to make the nation state you grew up in temporarily or permanently unliveable. You can’t afford to have all your chips on a dysfunctional political system that may never reverse the decline. You must have an alternative that will allow you to continue to grow, improve and sharpen your skills even as your nation state languishes. But at the same time your ancestors fought and risked their lives for their country and what it stood for in the past. They believed in a national project, they built the infrastructure, they grew the economy to one of the strongest economies in the world. Are you ready to write off that effort in the pursuit of freedom from the pen?

I subscribe to the Jordan Peterson “make your bed first” or get your life in order first before you worry about other people’s lives: living or dead. If you can’t succeed within a system because of an incompetent and/or malicious state then you have to leave. If you succeed elsewhere you can always come back later from a position of a strength with funds to deploy rather than as a helpless, powerless and moneyless victim. But if it is a battle between a well meaning individual with a single vote at the ballot box and an overly expanded state led by puppets installed by the global super rich there is only going to be one winner.

## Politics, spin and the “progression” from Sir Humphrey to Malcolm Tucker

I hate politics. As the former Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres said "Politics divides, science unites". Generally politics is a grubby pursuit of power filled with people who couldn't have succeeded with their limited skillsets in the marketplace. There are occasional political leaders who enter the dirty game with principles, stick to them under unbearable pressure from every possible side, both internally and externally, and manage to pull their country out of decline or set it on a course that wouldn’t have been possible without that individual’s efforts. In the UK the obvious examples from the last century are Winston Churchill and Margaret Thatcher. One led their country to victory in World War 2 leaning heavily on the US and the other inherited a basket case of an economy with widespread strikes, a three day working week, recession and high inflation and managed to turn it around. However they are the exception rather than the rule. Certainly since Thatcher resigned in 1990 and for the three decades since civil servants such as Sir Humphrey (characterised in the UK TV show Yes, Minister) and spin doctors such as Malcolm Tucker (characterised in the UK TV show The Thick of It) have been in the ascendancy. Whether it is civil servants preventing elected politicians from implementing the policies they were elected on or spin doctors obsessively focusing on image and PR at the expense of all else the principles and resilience Churchill and Thatcher demonstrated became yet another quaint anachronism from a bygone era. David Cameron (UK Prime Minister, 2010-2016) was essentially a trained spin doctor himself. You have to look internationally for more recent examples of political leaders who made a Churchill or Thatcher level impact on their countries. An impact where you can confidently say if you switched them out for someone else history would have been very different. The obvious example is the current Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. Although I’m much less familiar with Asian politics Lee Kuan Yew seems to have been long term transformative for Singapore. Then you’ve got President Trump and the El Salvador President Nayib Bukele who show promise to be elevated to this level but are definitely in the job half finished category in 2024. As the UK dishes out titles, lordships and decorations to mediocre, meaningless British leaders here in the UK you have to scour the world to find the people who have actually picked their country up and transformed it through their own individual will and a competent background staff. 

So let’s say you want to be your country’s Netanyahu or Thatcher. You don’t want to be just another name on a long list of people who managed to climb to the top of the greasy pole. You want to be able to point to where your country was when you came into power and show how your insights, your intelligence, your foresight, your resilience and your unwavering principles took it to a place that no other living human in your country could have done. Where do you start? Well first of all the vast majority of people aren’t capable. Just like sport where Roger Federer, Tiger Woods, Usain Bolt, Serena Williams etc are genetic freaks of nature I think the vast majority of people aren’t capable of being Netanyahu or Thatcher. I’m less familiar with Thatcher’s life story and what made her into the “lady not for turning”, a lady capable of crawling out of an IRA bombing of a Brighton hotel and continuing on exactly the same course. As a rare female example on this short list I think she was what David Goggins would call “an uncommon amongst the uncommon”. Most parents would not want to put their sons through the crucible that Thatcher went through let alone their daughters and that makes her even more of a freak. But because I’ve read more on Netanyahu in recent years let’s focus on him.

## Israel’s most challenging century - its first

A human or any animal’s most vulnerable moments are in the early years. They don’t have the knowledge, experience or ability to fend for themselves. They don’t know the threats they should worry about, the supposed threats they don’t need to worry about and even if they did they don’t know how to effectively protect themselves from them. Certainly in the animal world it is these early years where they are most likely to fall from a tree or be torn apart by a predator. The dependence on the parents is maximized and it gradually loosens over time. Israel as a nation state didn’t really have parents. You could argue the UK was a parent controlling the land pre the formation of the Israeli nation state and issuing the Balfour declaration in 1917. In its early years as a nation state Israel obtained most of its military and financial support from France with the US initially disinterested but over the decades Israel came to rely on the US as the primary provider of military and financial support. Today you’d probably say the US is in the parental role with perhaps the UK and France in a grandparent role. But in the early years presumably the US thought it wasn’t going to survive and it wasn’t worth investing in. Nonetheless the Israeli nation state was born into a sliver of land surrounded by predators: Arab, Muslim majority countries that didn’t want it to exist and were determined to destroy the concept of a Jewish nation state in the Middle East before it gained any legitimacy. Although Herzl and others had worked on the vision in the previous decades the vision meant nothing if it was going to be destroyed by predators post conception. Hence the country Netanyahu was born into was a country housing a people still devastated by the Holocaust, with no clear parental protectors and threats wherever the eye could see. The number one priority was and even today still is defense. Put Netanyahu in a room with an Eton educated, trained spin doctor with no military experience like Cameron and he inevitably seems cold, stubborn, unreasonable and unrelenting. One has dedicated their life to the sole purpose of ensuring a viable long term future for their nation state and the other has spent their life thinking how they can change the public perception, not the stone cold reality, of a political party in peacetime. If I was Netanyahu I'd be staggered by the arrogance that a Cameron had anything to contribute to long term Israeli military strategy discussions but I digress.

The narrative during Netanyahu’s lifetime, even from many US Presidents in the supposedly parental role, is that Israel should agree to split its sliver of land in the Middle East and its capital city in half and allocate it to a nation state for Arab Muslims in a region of the world where there is nothing other than nation states for Arab Muslims. Indeed within Israel itself 20 percent of the population is Arab, presumably majority Muslim. What they’ve asked Netanyahu to do is effectively split the equivalent of London or Washington DC into two halves: one half in which they control and another half in which the historic predators control. Please note I am not accusing all Arab Muslims of being predators. Many of them live peacefully within Israeli borders and don’t present a terrorism risk. But the prospect of asking the UK or US government to do that for their capital cities is beyond absurd. So Netanyahu has spent his whole life in this dance with the parental figure who just won’t let go of this “solution” that will achieve nothing other than ensuring Israel never emerges from the waves of terrorism and internal violence in the periods it isn’t additionally fighting predators outside of its borders. So want to be your country’s Netanyahu? Try standing up for your nation state’s long term viability against the world’s greatest military power without being toppled by the CIA and without offending them to the extent that they withdraw military and financial support. That’ll test whether you are truly “not for turning”.

Let’s turn to the economy. Because unless you are going to be funded perpetually by the parental figure you have to find a way to fund your nation state’s defense yourself. Especially if you aren’t going to compromise on the long term viability of your nation state amongst disagreements with that same parental figure. In the 1980s Israel experienced hyperinflation with the inflation rate reaching as high as 450 percent. Although socialism had succeeded in building a base layer infrastructure for this still nascent nation state as many other nation states have found to their cost socialist, centrally managed economies don’t scale. Control of industries has to be wrestled from the state and exposed to competition and market forces. A now thirty something Netanyahu was surveying a nation state not much older than him with a basket case economy and what seemed like total economic dependence on the parental figure. All while dealing with the death of his brother attempting to save Israeli hostages from Entebbe in Uganda years previous. So how are you doing aspiring Netanyahu? Able to move on after the death of your brother? Still have hope for your nation state as its economy languishes in the dustbin? After years of military service in the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) with expertise in defense rather than economic matters feel up to the challenge of turning around your nation state’s economy?

The playbook for turning a socialist, state controlled economy into a capitalist market based economy is not rocket science at least today in 2024. It has happened so many times now in economies all over the world that at least the broad strokes are just following the same weathered recipe. Indeed the economic reforms carried out in the 1980s in the UK by Thatcher and Nigel Lawson had a number of parallels with the reforms implemented by Shimon Peres and Netanyahu in Israel. Identify inefficient bureaucratic state monopolies, break them apart and allow the resulting businesses to compete for customers and engage in price competition. Of course it is hideously difficult to do in practice because yet again you find yourself surrounded by swarms of predators who are determined to prevent it from happening. Whether it is bureaucrats heading up those state monopolies, criminals who are profiting from the state monopolies’ excesses, misguided left wing politicians who are convinced socialism will eventually work, the media screaming that you will destroy what's left of the economy or employees who are frightened by the prospect of having to retrain and find a new role, the battle to force through obvious reforms is intense. Your life may not be at risk in the same way it is in military operations but it certainly requires similar levels of determination and refusal to quit or compromise. What I find incredible about Peres and Netanyahu is that not only did they succeed in this socialism to capitalism transformation but they also foresaw the technological trends that would present Israel with its best opportunity to fund its defense and gradually wean itself of its dependence on the US. Peres foresaw the “computer tak(ing) the place of the sword” even if the world of atoms can never be entirely ignored and Netanyahu returned from his studies at MIT in the 1970s convinced that Israel needed its own version of Silicon Valley with military intelligence, academia and business collaborating to launch “a thousand technological ships”. Liberating currency controls and freeing monetary transactions from the central bank (Bank of Israel) was one thing but foreseeing the impact computers and the internet would have in the 1970s (before I was even born) I find astonishing. As a teenager 30 years later, admittedly in a country with a dearth of technological ambition and a brain drain to the US, it wasn’t at all clear to me that technology or software would "eat the world" in the way it has.

Warren Buffett has talked about the “ovarian lottery” which decides your race, gender, wealth, genetic intelligence, health, geography etc at birth. If you wanted to succeed in the technological boom of the 2000s and 2010s you really needed access to the US and Silicon Valley. It is almost certain in my eyes that we would have never heard of Peter Thiel, Elon Musk or Sergey Brin if they hadn’t managed to emigrate to the US. But if you couldn’t make it to the US during these decades Israel would have been your next best bet. Although it doesn’t boast the same household names, brands or company valuations as Silicon Valley the foresight of Peres and Netanyahu laid the groundwork for the “Startup Nation” and the most tech startups and largest venture capital industry per capita on the planet. Mobileye, Check Point, Monday, Wix are all Israeli technology companies worth billions of dollars today and that doesn’t include all the acquisition successes such as Waze, Chromatis and NDS also valued in the billions of dollars. For an economy collapsing under hyperinflation in the 1980s it is quite the achievement that people were writing books on how other countries should be copying Israel 30 years later. Not bad for a guy discharged from the military after being shot in the shoulder and still grieving his deceased brother.

## Enter Bitcoin

I got more and more interested in Bitcoin around 2014. At that point one Bitcoin was worth approximately $200. As I write this in 2024 one Bitcoin is worth over $50,000. It has gone up by a multiple of 250. So I and many other UK citizens are now very wealthy and there is a thriving UK industry built around this new asset class valued approximately a trillion dollars? No. Well there must be a real momentum to correct that in 2024? Isn’t London supposed to be up there with New York as one of the world’s pre-eminent financial centers? Also no. What instead has happened in that decade is the UK media has covered it almost exclusively as a Ponzi scheme, a bubble, something that only criminals and money launderers ars interested in in a negative media blitz that is only comparable to its coverage of Israel during my lifetime. The UK regulator has done everything in its power to squash Bitcoin startups and Bitcoin business models including recently requiring Bitcoin exchanges to refuse to provide services to individuals who had purchased too much Bitcoin in the past and weren’t classed as high net worth individuals. The UK government has declared its intention to make the UK a “global crypto asset technology hub” all while UK banks increasingly prevent their customers from using their own funds to purchase Bitcoin. Yet another example of gaslighting from the UK state where they declare something in public whilst trying to achieve the polar opposite in private. And not only that. But during the previous decade due to the lasting effects of the 2008 financial crash, the inability to grow the UK economy and more recently the years of Covid lockdowns the Bank of England (the UK central bank with convenient regulatory powers too) has engaged in large scale money printing (“quantitative easing”) pumping up the prices of conventional asset classes, reducing the real value of cash, forcing companies into shrinking their products (“shrinkflation”) to disguise the effects of the increase in the money supply and then last year the dam burst and even official consumer price inflation rocketed. In contrast Bitcoin has a fixed monetary supply, still has large price upside and has now survived and become more and more valuable for 16 years. This is what convinces me that the UK state wants its citizens to remain poor and if anything continue to get poorer. Imagine working hard your entire life and paying your taxes to a sprawling state that doesn’t want you to succeed, doesn’t want you to become wealthy and will actively work to keep you poor. Is that what UK citizens’ ancestors fought for in World War 1 and World War 2? To be lied to, misinformed, gaslighted and ultimately prevented from becoming wealthier by the very entity their ancestors fought for and risked their lives for decades previous? It is hideous and those ancestors must be turning in their graves.

Now Bitcoin could fail. There is a history of national currencies experiencing hyperinflation, cutting some zeros off and starting again. Indeed Israel today is using the “new Shekel” rather than the “old Shekel” for this very reason. In currency or asset terms Bitcoin is that parentless baby surrounded by predators wherever the eye can see. There are a number of questions long term about what function Bitcoin will perform globally. Will it be a new global monetary unit of account, can it scale so that it can be used as a daily medium of exchange or is it digital gold for a new gold standard? Will the 21st century central bank issue national currency linked to the Bitcoin it holds in the same way as the 19th century central bank issued currency linked to the gold it holds? Or will the central banks just cut the zeros off their national currency and all the people whose savings were inflated away over previous decades forgive and forget? I don’t know. But what I do know is over the previous decade all branches of the UK state have done everything in their power to suppress Bitcoin, suffocate Bitcoin startups at birth and brainwash its citizens to associate it with crime and fraud. Just as the UK media has portrayed Israel as a nation state with no redeeming features other than terrorism and military responses the media has put the fraudsters, the Ponzi schemes that latch onto Bitcoin and the venture capitalists promoting alternatives to Bitcoin whilst privately buying Bitcoin themselves on the pedestal and broadcasting their messages out far and wide. Nothing on the potential merits of Bitcoin, nothing on its fixed monetary supply versus the seemingly unlimited quantitative easing (printing money) the central banks are carrying out in the shadows and nothing on some of the smartest developers and technologists globally being attracted to Bitcoin as arguably their generation’s greatest opportunity to make the historic impact and the wealth that the previous wave of internet entrepreneurs (Peter Thiel, Elon Musk, Sergey Brin etc) made. Peter Thiel's and Elon Musk's PayPal initially set out to build a global digital currency and ultimately failed. Bitcoin could "fail" too, it could fade into irrelevance just as people were writing off the internet at the turn of the millennia. But for the UK state to prevent their citizens from making that choice to participate in it, to prevent their citizens from potentially making money from it and to try to prevent digital Bitcoin from moving between citizens in the same way as laptops obtain search query bits from Google is the height of arrogance and sinister incompetence. UK citizens are not free, the UK state knows what’s best for you and all those times in the past the UK state lied to you or was wrong about important issues? Well you can’t remember them goldfish brain can you? Here’s what Meghan and Harry are up to today.

## The method behind the madness - how to make a country great again

When a country has sunk into the abyss for decades, every branch of the state seems to be compromised by forces that solely want to keep the majority in their pens and everyone seems to be indifferent to their fate is it over? Do you write that country off as a failed project? Is it impossible to turn it around? Well probabilistically nothing is impossible but if you compare the challenge to say the challenge Trump has faced in making America great again, the UK has been and still is in much worse shape. It wasn’t too long ago that Wall Street, Washington DC, Silicon Valley, Hollywood etc were the envy of the world. What exactly has the world been envious of in the UK in recent decades? This is not to denigrate the challenge that Trump faced and still faces in 2024 but for the UK to attempt something similar you’d need a Trump on steroids. Someone who could pick up the Trump playbook and somehow take it to even further extremes. So I guess the first step is to understand the Trump playbook. Friedrich Nietzsche, the 19th century German philosopher stated “All great things must first wear terrifying and monstrous masks in order to inscribe themselves on the hearts of humanity”. The first phase of Trump’s reincarnation as a political leader back in 2015 rather than a business mogul and TV personality was to shock and seize attention of the airwaves. This was a step change from the personality he displayed previously. In his many TV appearances over the decades he is passionate, driven and certainly a committed capitalist but he is greeted warmly by TV hosts and TV audiences on all sides of the political spectrum. In 2015 that changed. Whether it be Mexican immigrants are “bringing crime, they’re rapists and some I assume are good people”, TV networks that he’d previously regularly appeared on were an “enemy of the people” or “I think Islam hates us” he deliberately courted controversy with messaging which dressed up his legitimate concerns on immigration, the TV networks being dragged leftwards under Obama and the continued terrorism threat from Islamist extremists into soundbites designed to shock. This was very different to the typical politician. Firstly the typical politician doesn’t seem to have any principles or deeply held beliefs, they will say what they need to say to get elected and to keep their donors happy. But secondly they will also communicate in a way designed to upset as few potential voters as possible so as not to harm their election prospects. Trump wasn’t getting into politics to add his name to the list of US Presidents. He was getting into politics to make America great again after a lifetime of frustration with the American political system. This all cumulated obviously in January 6th where Trump was willing to go right up to the line with his justified anger over censorship and lack of controls around widespread postal voting but critically without crossing it. In a nation with the world’s strongest military and intelligence agencies such as the CIA and NSA and after four years of being embroiled in impeachments and investigations from everything to Russia collusion to financial fraud to sex scandals crossing that line could have been fatal. A UK based Trump would probably have been put in jail for hate speech years previous for “I think Islam hates us”.

## The first term - dismantling the state

Imagine you are an Allied soldier liberating prisoners from a Nazi concentration camp or an Israeli soldier attempting to free an Israeli hostage from an underground network of tunnels in Gaza. You are surveying a complex structure that was built for a purpose: in the former to exterminate the Jews and in the latter to undermine and ultimately destroy the nation state of Israel. If you don’t have the same goals as those who built those structures in the first place you have to effectively decide whether you can repurpose those structures for a different goal and if not destroy them to make space for something new. The first term of the Trump Presidency was utterly bewildering. You had individuals who had no qualifications and no business being near the machinery of government being hired and fired within weeks and sometimes days. What was the “stable genius” doing? Well if you are going to do some destroying you are going to need to engage in some distraction tactics. The left in America has produced some incredible inspiring and eloquent speakers from John F Kennedy to Barack Obama but you’d struggle to outline their political achievements in office and you’d also struggle to argue that they really changed the trajectory of their country. The focus was on words rather than actions. Meanwhile to the intellectual, ivory tower classes Trump, Bush Jr and maybe even Reagan seem like idiots. The media and political circus never stops and so if you are actually going to succeed in taking a sledge hammer to complex structures that aren’t required anymore and perhaps never were you need them focused in the opposite direction being driven into a frenzy because a supposed moron was elected President or there is a revolving door of crazy White House appointments. The media relations with the JFKs and the Obamas were a love-in. Meanwhile the media generally demonizes those on the right and so you need someone or something to absorb that hate. If Trump is reelected in 2024 the focus will almost certainly be on the rebuilding of America now that some of those complex structures have been destroyed or at least been shown up to be acting in the opposite interests of its people. No doubt Trump will still seek to shock occasionally but the first phase is complete. The next phase post demolition is to rebuild.

## The supposedly perfectly neutral paragon of virtue that is the BBC

If you watch television in the UK you are forced to pay the TV license fee under the threat of fines and ultimately jail. It doesn’t matter if you never watch anything on the BBC and watch other channels exclusively you still must pay the TV license fee. The license fee goes predominantly to the BBC. This puts the BBC in an incredibly powerful position. Firstly it is “free” to view in the same way as other state services are supposedly “free”. They’re obviously not free, they are taxpayer funded but in the world of socialism you pay your taxes, ignore how they’re being spent and then marvel that you’re lucky enough to live in a country that dishes out free stuff. As it is “free” to view, doesn’t require optional subscription fees to be paid or ads to be viewed the less affluent gravitate towards the BBC for entertainment and more crucially news. The justification for the BBC being funded by its citizens under the threat of jail is that the BBC is politically neutral, impartial and balanced. We’ll explore some of the examples where the BBC has failed hideously in its supposed objective but G*d himself would be unable to fulfil this objective. In a world of 8 billion people and let’s say 24 hours of daily news coverage every decision to try to stay politically neutral, impartial and balanced is impossible. Let’s say there is a terrorist attack in Israel and Sierra Leone at a similar time. Which do you shine a light on by covering it? Who do you interview? What are their political biases? How much time do you spend covering it? Should you cover either at all when there are 70 million people in your home country who have their own challenges. Every minute there are crimes being committed in your home country from rape to murder to sexual abuse of minors to burglaries. You have one light and only 24 hours to shine it. What is the politically neutral, impartial and balanced way to shine it? It is an impossible question to answer.

What the BBC has settled on in recent years and in many cases much longer than that is a stance that is anti Brexit, anti Israel, anti capitalism, anti conservatism, anti religion, ignores atrocities in parts of the world that don’t matter (Africa, Asia etc), ignores scandals that occur within BBC walls such as the child sexual abuse of “Sir” Jimmy Savile (yes he was awarded a Knight Bachelor and Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire which I’m sure his victims appreciated at the time) and instead buys totally into the concern with cows farting and the “diversity” agenda. If you don’t want to fund this agenda, tough. It will be prison for you comrade. Why the supposed right wing, nominally the Conservative Party, in the UK puts up with this is a total mystery. No matter what the BBC does the government at the time, right wing or left wing, renews the Royal Charter without fail ensuring citizens can’t watch television without funding the BBC. With the power to decide what is politically neutral, impartial and balanced the BBC can essentially decide what the center ground of a spectrum is. If the center ground is anti Israel for example then it provides a space which can freely support terrorism and the attempted destruction of Israel because that is a valid “left of center” position. Anyone who is pro Israel isn’t on the center, they aren’t even on the right, they are on the supposed far right. If the BBC’s defined center ground cares more about “diversity” than child sex rings committed by predominantly Muslim immigrants in the north of England then someone who cares about those child sex rings (e.g. Tommy Robinson) isn’t on the right, they are on the supposed far right. The BBC decides where the center ground is and who should be ignored and censored as far right and who should be given a platform on a mainstream news channel despite hideous anti white, anti male, anti working class, anti Jewish and anti Israel hatred. You basically have to be Hitler or Stalin to even be considered as “far left” not that the BBC would ever use that term. 

Isn’t the BBC regulated? If UK citizens are forced to fund it and it is able to define the center ground of political discourse in the country then surely the regulator must be all over them compared to competing news channels that aren’t in this privileged position. Well there is a regulator “Ofcom” or the “Office of Communications” which obviously is also taxpayer funded and yet another branch of the state that is essentially regulating itself in this case if you consider the BBC a different branch of the state. But instead of being all over the BBC in recent times it has instead turned most of its attention and resources on startup news channels like GB News and TalkTV. Startup news channels that aren’t taxpayer funded, don’t have powers to throw citizens in jail and have no authority to define the center ground or define the spectrum of an issue. These businesses have to find ways to fund themselves with advertising or subscriptions and viewers have to consciously seek them out being tucked away on a previously unused TV channel number, a website or a YouTube channel. So why has Ofcom prioritized cracking down on these startup news channels and given the BBC an effective free pass? We know the answer (state good, competition bad) but what is Ofcom’s justification? Well they aren’t sufficiently impartial of course! The BBC succeeds in being impartial (of course!) with occasional slip ups but these alternative news channels don’t sit neatly on the spectrum that the BBC essentially defines. Individuals who are ignored, censored or dismissed as “far right” on the BBC are sometimes given a platform on these news channels which is unacceptable. Right wing politicians who wouldn’t be given much if any time to express their views on the BBC are given ample time to express their views on these alternatives. And sometimes, and this really is horrific, they have discussions or debates between individuals who are all to the right of the center of the BBC’s spectrum. Without one individual to the left of the center of the BBC’s spectrum. No Israel haters and no individuals preaching the gospel of the scourge of cows farting or the heavenly delights of “diversity”. Thankfully your taxpayer UK pounds are hard at work trying to prevent these sorts of horrific things happening on a news channel you aren’t required to fund and you certainly aren’t required to watch.

## The long hand of the state

The internet (and Bitcoin if it wasn’t suppressed from birth) theoretically at least presented the opportunity for individuals and communities to interact and discuss topics that haven’t been sanctioned by the BBC from the comfort of your bedroom. What these startup news channels are showing is that in a world of websites and YouTube channels a state issued channel number or license to operate isn’t required to get your content out. Companies like Facebook, Twitter (now X) and YouTube initially built incredibly good software using skilled software developers who at various points didn’t meet the “diversity” requirements of the present day. The outputs (the software or the code running on your machine) were of a very high standard and the users didn’t care if a transsexual, Chinese female who sometimes identifies as a cat contributed code to it or not. But if you thought that signalled the permanent victory of free speech and market competition over the state you’d have been mistaken. What we saw during the end of the first Trump term, the BLM riots and the Covid pandemic was the state fightback. The state managed to both internally infiltrate these companies and externally exert pressure on these companies to clamp down on individuals and topics that didn’t align with the state sanctioned spectrum of views. It cumulated in the sitting President of the United States being booted off Twitter and unable to communicate with his followers using that platform. The sitting President of the United States. In the United States. If the sitting President of the United States succumbs to these forces what hope does the Tommy Robinson or the Joe Bloggs have? The kind of rug pulling these platforms have engaged in is particularly heinous because you can spend years of your life publishing content and building a following only for your presence on that platform to be digitally assassinated because a few employees at those companies didn’t agree with your views. With in many cases zero explanation and no legal recourse. And that is if you managed to evade the digital assassination to build up a following in the first place. If these platforms spot you early enough they can just stop anyone finding your content organically through search and every view and every follow you obtain can only be through a determined pursuit on the behalf of the consumer to find that content at the expense of all alternatives. “I want X” gets a response of “Are you sure you don’t want Y”, “Ok but are you sure you don’t want Z?” until the consumer just assumes that content doesn’t exist anymore. It is the equivalent of imprisoning you in a digital dungeon. You’re still alive, you haven’t been digitally assassinated but no one can find you or communicate with you. Again with zero explanation and no legal recourse. The code for these digital assassinations or these digital dungeons isn’t published, it isn’t open source. And even if it was open source employees at the company can just override the code in the cases where a digital assassination or a new digital dungeon is required. The promise that these platforms initially showed has been quashed by the long hand of the state. Not content at ruling over the world of bits the UK state is now pursuing an Online Safety Bill to regulate online speech and media. So don’t like the “diversity” agenda and want to go back to a diverse meritocracy? Not only will you be digitally assassinated or digitally imprisoned the state will find a way to imprison you in the world of atoms. Long live the state comrade.

## The Covid pandemic - the state’s wet dream

The UK state in peacetime has already got its tentacles in every aspect of your life from what you watch on the television, what your favourite online platform is able to recommend to you to watch next, what you eat, how that food is produced, the tap water you drink, what new technologies are funded and what new technologies aren’t, what crimes are investigated and what crimes are ignored and indeed what is a crime in the first place. Today if I provide an ATM in the UK so someone can buy Bitcoin with physical cash I can be arrested and fined. But it is during national emergencies when the UK state hoovers up the few remaining freedoms that UK citizens have. The Covid pandemic presented the first truly national emergency since World War 2 and we got to see what life is like when you surrender every freedom to the state. To start with the slow initial response to give the virus the chance to enter the country and spread like wildfire while other countries like the US imposed early travel restrictions from China. Then daily government briefings that you were essentially forced to watch because it would outline whether you had to wear a mask or not, whether you were allowed to leave your house and for how long, whether you were allowed to mix with anyone else outside of your household and how many people you were allowed to mix with, how far you could venture from your home and which supermarkets you could enter. As we now know this was all while the people in charge of making these decisions, reversing these decisions and then reinstating these decisions were having parties and handing out hundreds of million pound contracts to their friends to provide products they had no prior experience providing and in many cases failed to satisfy the terms of. Up to 40 billion pounds was spent on the Track and Trace app that barely worked, no one used and was eventually shelved. This continued over the course of the best part of two years. We had Rishi Sunak, later rewarded with the post of UK Prime Minister, introducing the “Eat out to help out” scheme with the government (taxpayer funded of course) paying 50 percent of people’s bills to eat out in restaurants only to soon go back into a state enforced lockdown again. No additional protections around care homes where the elderly and infirm were housed and no ability for loved ones to see them before they died. Every person was under the same restrictions even though it was clear from early on that Covid posed a much greater risk to the old and a very low risk to the young. Then we had the introduction of the Covid vaccine. The government declared it “safe and effective” when all vaccines pose risk of side effects especially new vaccines which haven’t been tested over the long term. They threatened to impose travel restrictions, work restrictions and restrictions on where you could eat and drink if you didn’t take the vaccine. We now know GCHQ, the UK’s version of the NSA, was cracking down on online discussion of the potential long terms risks of the vaccine and whether the vaccine was as effective as it was being marketed as. One day the government was stating the vaccine prevented the spread of Covid, the next day the government was stating it didn’t. What about the opposition parties? Surely they were challenging the decision making and questioning whether younger people should be locked down for two years and be forced to take the vaccine when Covid posed very little risk to them. Zero. If anything they were fighting for even longer lockdowns, even greater state imposed restrictions and more forceful threats to take the vaccine whatever the person’s circumstances. The cherry on top was the government briefings encouraging the public to have weekly clapping sessions to encourage NHS staff who were utterly failed by the incompetence of the state. It all seems like a bad dream now but it happened. And afterwards? In the spirit of regularly sweeping the state’s sinister incompetence under the rug an inquiry was set up so lawyers could be paid by the taxpayer to ultimately after many years and millions spent find no one responsible. Over 200,000 dead, the economy trashed, large swathes of small businesses bankrupt, a resumption of Bank of England quantitative easing debasing the currency to pay everyone to sit at home for 2 years and the state finances plundered to enrich cronies during a national emergency. Long live the state comrade.

If nothing changes after all that and business just continues as usual what has to happen for the public to realize that they are being taken for fools by the state they continue to fund with their taxes? Their elderly relatives being slaughtered in care homes through negligence, their younger relatives being lied to and cajoled into a taking a new vaccine multiple times when it wasn’t at all clear Covid posed a greater risk to their health than the vaccine itself. Of course the political and media circus wants to move on and avoid accountability, they want to pretend it never happened and they are relying on the public having goldfish brains or blaming it all on a single boogeyman: Putin, Brexit, Matt Hancock etc. But what more does the state have to do? Literally have government employees break into people’s homes and rape their daughters in front of them? The Covid pandemic should have resulted in an absolute overturning of UK politics. Like a plot from Agatha Christie’s Murder on the Orient Express, every single branch of the state totally failed and each one has blood on their hands. Yet in 2024 the UK is going into an election with both major parties trying to make it a business as usual election. A banning of vapes here, a 1p cut in income tax rate here. Allegiance to the same political correctness and “diversity” agenda that left elderly relatives dying without being able to see loved ones for a final time. If the UK isn’t over and there is still a spark of hope that it can be turned around there has to be a major showing for new parties and individuals who previously got censored by the state and written off as racists, cranks and conspiracy theorists. Because if the state can just get away with it after all that there is nothing it can’t get away with.

## The 20th century UK state’s primary objective: managed decline

After the breakup of the British Empire and two world wars where the center of global power shifted from London to Washington DC it was inevitable that there was going to be a painful reckoning as the UK adjusted to not being the focal point of power, influence and wealth generation certainly in the West and arguably of the entire planet. But did this strategy of managed decline really have to last 80 years? And if it isn’t reversed today in 2024 will it ever be reversed? There are numerous empires such as the Greek and Roman empires that seemingly never did recover and although they still maintain a proud culture and popular tourist destinations the route for smart, ambitious Greeks and Italians to succeed today is to emigrate to the US. Is it inevitable that the UK becomes yet another Greece or Italy? Or is it possible that it takes inspiration from smaller states that never had empires such as Israel and Singapore and rebuilds as a larger, technologically advanced equivalent. All countries have their reasons for complacency. Australia for example has relied on natural resources for decades to ensure a high quality of life for its citizens and so the kind of skill and expertise required to build a globally competitive technology company like Apple or Google say just hasn’t been a priority. The UK’s problem has been its reliance on its history rather than its future to stay relevant. London will always be a critical financial center right? It once was the center of the British Empire. Global companies will always need a presence in the UK because you won’t find the skills and expertise to manage a multinational company anywhere else right? As the decades wear on and the British Empire and the world wars become a long distant memory it is not at all clear that this is or will always be the case. Unless a company from Israel or Singapore wants guidance on how to meet “diversity” or net zero requirements what does London or the UK have to offer? 70 million people is a decent sized market but compared to the US (300 million) or say India (1.4 billion) or China (1.4 billion) it is still pretty small. All the different branches of the UK state would say that’s an argument for staying in the EU and remaining part of a 450 million person market. And maybe it is if managed decline is the only possible strategy for the UK. Group together with a bunch of other European nations with a similar or worse problem post empires or post attempted empires and at least there will be strength in numbers. Cobble together an unelected European Commission with no democratic mandate or accountability to the European people and it won’t really matter. No one can afford to ignore a 450 million person market right? Although of course this wasn’t spelt out during the Brexit referendum campaign this is effectively what the decision came down to. Believe the UK can do better or continue with managed decline and huddling in the EU for strength in numbers. All the branches of the UK state wanted the latter. The UK people chose the former.

A key pillar in a strategy of managed decline is suppressing ambition, patriotism, a shared sense of national identity and that pesky desire to make a country great again. Brain drain is fine, if anything it should be encouraged. You don’t want smart people questioning why certain things are being done or not being done. You don’t want them questioning if their area really is being improved when it is swamped by immigrants from third world countries. But for those that stay you don’t want them grouping together under a flag and a pride for their national history demanding better than what the state wants for them. If you can you want to splinter those attempted groupings, demonize the leaders of those groupings, censor them, throw them in jail, give them criminal records (an experience Tommy Robinson and the Britain First leader Paul Golding can both attest to) and if possible convince the entire population that the national flag that their ancestors fought and risked their lives under now represents racism and violence. Just as the Nazis encouraged the waving of the Nazi emblem rather than the German flag, in recent times UK streets are filled with people waving the Palestinian flag for a nation state that doesn’t exist rather than the UK flag. In the week that I write this (w/c February 19th 2024) “From the river to the sea”, a slogan calling for the destruction of Israel was beamed onto Big Ben next to the UK Parliament. Discussions inside the UK Parliament on the Israeli military action against the terror group Hamas were supposedly disrupted by the mounting Islamist terror threat outside. All in the same week as the London Mayor, Sadiq Khan, a Muslim, was blocking plans for a statue of the late Queen Elizabeth II and instead renaming London Overground lines to promote the “diversity” agenda.

It is worth remembering that the true heroes of various causes whether it be the Suffragettes fighting for women’s rights in the UK at the beginning of the 20th century or the Martin Luther Kings of the civil rights movement in the US in the middle of the 20th century suffered exactly the same fate as Tommy Robinson and Paul Golding have in recent times. Today the state despises white, working class males. I started watching a TV dramatic series “The Undeclared War” (Channel 4, a state owned TV channel) on GCHQ and cyber attacks and couldn’t make it through a single episode because the “diversity” agenda was just being forced down viewers’ throats. They described white males as “male, pale and stale” completely ignoring whether they were competent at their job or not. The hero was the teenage Asian female work experience student with no prior cyber security experience and no understanding of the existing cyber security systems but she was somehow able to thwart a cyber attack that the useless “male, pale and stale” long term employees were unable to do. This delivers two messages that are unrelenting across all UK media and culture today. Firstly, that white males can’t be good at their job and they are only there because of the racist patriarchy. And secondly, that you don’t have to work hard over a long period of time to build up expertise in a subject matter and then apply it in a security critical setting. Instead you can just show up as a teenage student with no experience and as long as you’re not “male, pale and stale” you’ll be able to transform national security. The UK military and security services have been diverse and competent in the past. Indeed the Gurkhas say fought on the side of the Allies in World War 2. But what has changed since then is that competence and a diverse meritocracy is no longer the aim. Instead the aim is the painting by numbers “diversity” and hatred for white, working class males whatever their qualities, abilities or work ethic. Which is quite the problem given that 80 percent of the UK population is white today and the white male population totals 28 million people. That’s a lot of people that Tommy Robinson and Paul Golding are standing up for.

Of course in a population of 28 million white males there are going to be a small minority that still hold truly racist or white supremacy views though it seems to be dwindling decade by decade. Certainly in the arena of sport, one rare industry in the UK where you still have a diverse meritocracy, individuals of all races and religions are able to succeed and are idolised by white male supporters. The fact that Mohamed Salah is Muslim, Son Heung-min is Korean or Bukayo Saka is black doesn't factor in most of the time. You certainly don't have lifelong Liverpool supporters stop supporting Liverpool because their star player is a Muslim or lifelong Arsenal supporters stop supporting Arsenal because their star player is black. Yet in other industries like finance, consulting, law and certainly in the sprawling state apparatus your skill and competence is secondary to your race and gender. In those industries the Erling Haalands and the Kevin De Bruynes are looked down on for being "male, pale and stale". Instead of picking the best players available to them Man City would have dropped Haaland and De Bruyne and played a black player or a Muslim player instead. This isn't just a "diversity" agenda. This is racism. It is just that racism that would have been directed towards black people a century ago is now being directed towards white people.

What perplexes me is that in a population of 28 million there are so few Tommy Robinsons and Paul Goldings willing to resist and fight back. There is no way in a million years a white Allied soldier would have returned from fighting in World War 2 and put up with racism towards him in his own country. Or that Winston Churchill would have stood aside for an ethnic minority leader during World War 2 because he was "male, pale and stale". It is unfathomable. But every time the state takes another step towards becoming more racist and more sexist towards white males today the white males just put with it. It is yet another reason why the UK state seems to despise Israel. Although Israel has a diverse society it wouldn't sit back and allow racism towards Jews in its own country. It wouldn't allow leaders and politicians to promote an agenda that looks down on and dismisses Jews for being Jewish. What would the point be of having a Jewish nation state if Jews were second class citizens in that nation state? Yet in the UK you have a predominantly white, Christian population and they are allowing themselves to be cast as second class citizens in that nation state. The frog is being slowly boiled and it is doing nothing about it. The state is very sly. It will find the rare examples of individuals being racist towards ethnic minorities whether that be a British 12 year old boy arrested for racially abusing the black footballer Wilfried Zaha on social media or the death of a black man 4000 miles away across an ocean (George Floyd) and use those examples to drum home the message that the racism problem is still with the white working class. Yet there is only one race being openly criticised for the color of their skin in supposedly respectable forums, there is only one race being forced out of organizations or denied promotions because of the color of their skin and there is only one race being mocked on state owned television channels for the color of their skin. And that race is not black or Asian people. That race is white British people.

## Now or never: the fightback

Today the numbers are on the white working classes' side. In a population of 67 million white British people make up the majority (80 percent). In a supposedly democratic system where it is one person, one vote that should be a large enough voting bloc to ensure the white working classes don't permanently become second class citizens in their own country. But the UK state is not on their side and that is the most powerful entity of all. We've already discussed the BBC and the media's ability to define the spectrum of an issue. On immigration (both legal and illegal) the "acceptable" center ground position in recent decades has been that arguing against mass immigration from third world countries is racist or far right. With that spectrum in place legal (we'll ignore illegal for now) net migration statistics have boomed. 750,000 net inwards migration in the year to December 2022 with similar figures in 2023. Where these people are coming from, what they potentially offer the country, whether they are the next Peter Thiel or the next Osama Bin Laden isn't discussed. Again in a football analogy it would be the equivalent of not caring whether you are signing Mohamed Salah or Osama Bin Laden. A Muslim star that lights up a cup final at the old twin towers of Wembley Stadium or a terrorist that lights up the Twin Towers of New York and brings a country to its knees by slaughtering thousands of innnocent civilians. The state seemingly doesn't care. But what it does seem to care about is eroding that white working class voting bloc. The area in which I grew up as a kid, Wembley in North London, barely has any white British people in it anymore. It is not even that white British people are the minority. When I get on a bus to Wembley I am nearly always the only white British person on the bus by the time I reach my destination and even I'm half Jewish. The entire bus is of a different race, speaking a different language and seemingly with greater allegiance and fondness to the country they came from than the country they're living in. In thirty years it has gone from a typical British working class area to what seems like a suburban slum of Mumbai. Other parts of London or other UK cities now seem like a suburban slum of Kabul or Islamabad. Did anyone vote for this? Did the Conservative or Labour government ever say "Vote for us. We'll turn your city into Kabul or Islamabad?". No. They threw the racism accusation at anyone who even broached the subject of "Is this government doing what we want? Is it in my interests if my hometown becomes Kabul or Islamabad? If I don't want this who am I supposed to vote for? And why are those options being derided in the mainstream media as racist or languishing in prison?". The sight of London and other UK cities being swarmed by Palestinian flags rather than UK flags has been a long time in the making. And who has their fingerprints all over it? You guessed it, the UK state.

When surveying the UK state apparatus today in 2024 you really are that Allied solider surveying that Nazi concentration camp or that Israeli soldier surveying the Gaza network of tunnels for the first time. What exactly is worth salvaging here? Don't get me wrong, when the National Health Service (NHS) was founded in the UK in 1948 I'm sure the founders never envisaged politicians enriching themselves as nurses struggled to save lives and loved ones perished alone in care homes. I'm sure when GCHQ was founded in 1919 the founders never envisaged it being used to suppress discussion of vaccine efficacy and safety and instead priortizing "diversity" over national security. I'm sure when the BBC was founded in 1922 the founders never envisaged repeated cover ups of scandals like "Sir" Jimmy Savile's child abuse or sympathizing with Hamas terrorists in Gaza. I'm sure when the Bank of England was founded in 1694 the founders never envisaged money printing on the scale the Bank of England has engaged in the last decade all whilst lying about it and trying to hide the scale of it from its citizens. But in 2024 we are where we are, you can't keep your head in the sand. These branches of the state, no doubt set up with the best intentions by well meaning, patriotic people are today rotting from the inside. On a case by case basis there may be things to salvage from these rotting corpses. But the people who should be making those evaluations are the people who identified these problems and were brave and courageous enough to attempt to prevent them from happening. There aren't many of these people. There are the Tommy Robinsons and Paul Goldings who were willing to go to prison to stand up for the white working classes. There are some politicians like Nigel Farage who fought for Brexit for many years and were derided for believing Britain could do better than cowering in an undemocratic European Union. There are politicians like Andrew Bridgen who today is determined to get to the truth on what we injected into our bodies during the Covid pandemic and what was motivating the threats from the state to ensure every person took the vaccine regardless of personal health considerations. These people do exist. But today they are on the edges of power and the state directed discourse. If the fightback is going to happen this needs to flip. The spineless state stooges need to be removed and the enemies of the state need to come in and survey the damage. Otherwise the white working classes will be waking up in 2050 and they will be the minority at the ballot box in their own country. 

## Controlled opposition: the state's Uncle Toms

I think it is inevitable the pendulum swings back from the extreme left wing and socialist ideologies that peaked during the Covid pandemic of 2020-2022. But the pendulum gently swinging back and resting at a less extreme center left position won't cut it for the UK after 80 years of managed decline. As I said earlier if there is any hope for the UK it needs a Trump on steroids. Not only is this individual going to be demonized, censored and suppressed by all branches of the UK state they are also going to suffer the same treatment from state adjacent media and Big Tech platforms which will do whatever the state tells them to do knowing that the state has the power to rug pull their business. A lot has been made of Elon Musk's 44 billion dollar acquistion of Twitter and rebranding to X.com in 2022 and alhough this is a step in the right direction (you can't really get worse than preventing a sitting US President from communicating with the US electorate) it is clear that the days of untrammelled free speech and finding individuals with perhaps niche shared interests is long gone. Even post Musk induced changes there are topics that when discussed will ensure your account gets suppressed such that no one sees your content and although some code has been published on the logic behind the digital dungeons (again a step in the right direction) X.com still maintains a private list of blacklisted topics and processes for digital assassinations that seem totally dependent on Musk's biases, moods and state strongarming (AlexFinnX, February 27th 2024). This Trump on steroids is going up against the most powerful Goliath in human history. Never before has a population been captive to Big Tech platforms with the illusion of free speech and digital freedom of movement but with the reality of state directed discourse. In the UK GB News and TalkTV are also a step in the right direction in the media landscape but the content is often sterilized and following the same talking points of the other mainstream news channels. Neither will give a platform to the Tommy Robinsons or Paul Goldings of the country and they generally just sweep up the unwanted TV personalities like Piers Morgan who have left the mainstream channels. New voices and new individuals who aren't tarnished by association with the scandal and mediocrity of the previous decades aren't really breaking through or given a platform. The strategy to fight the Goliath hence has to be incredibly nuanced and targeted. Building up a grassroots following in the world of atoms now that Covid based restrictions on the freedom of movement have been relaxed is going to be a critical part. Books and promotional materials can be purchased in the world of bits from independent websites when Amazon and Big Tech platforms refuses to sell them. Payments, donations and general fundraising can be done through Bitcoin and QR codes when the banks refuse an individual or an organization access to bank account. It is not going to be easy, far from it. But when all you have is a metaphorical sling and stones you have to make do with what you've got.

## Your ticket to the game

In a diverse meritocracy, which the UK clearly isn't in 2024, the only way to get a ticket to the game and not be a NPC (non-player character) is to hone a particular skill or build expertise in a science or technology. The upper classes can afford to study exclusively humanities and the arts and not scrutinize their views to data or test their abilities in the marketplace but the working classes do not have this luxury. If they are to escape from minimum wage jobs and/or pointless jobs that were only introduced to keep them occupied the working classes have to be able to clearly demonstrate their value. The "diversity" agenda suppresses the white working class majority but it hurts the ethnic minority working classes too if they care about testing the limits of their potential like David Goggins has done pushing his body to the brink and meticulously studying his mind during that process. The message from the upper classes to the ethnic minority working classes in the UK is "You are a victim in this racist society. There's a role for you in our painting by numbers hiring process even if you aren't skilled in anything." This is not to say writing isn't an important adjacent skill whether that be completing an application form or writing a convincing proposal. But without that skill or expertise you have nothing of merit to write about. The upper classes will tell the ethnic minority working classes "Your emotions as a victim have value. This evil white person will never know what it feels like to be a black person and so you can always lecture them about your emotions or feelings in any given day." But every single human has emotions or feelings in a given day. And if you are desperate to find something that gives them merit in a victimhood mentality you will find it. Maybe you're fat, maybe the opposite sex was mean to you once, maybe you're unattractive, maybe your parents were neglectful, maybe you were bullied once at school or in the workplace. Every single person will have reasons for a victim mentality. Whether the upper classes see those reasons as valid enough to carve out a path in a hiring process for those reasons is a different question but in a diverse meritocracy it shouldn't matter. The upper classes shouldn't even be in that position to make those decisions unless they have also demonstrated excellence in a particular skill or expertise.

There are still plenty of opportunies in the world of atoms for truly skilled or experienced practitioners but at least in the UK the opportunities in the world of bits are severely underestimated and misunderstood. No one from the upper classes to the working classes seems to have a handle on just how much the world of bits has embedded in our lives today such that even in the world of atoms you are using the world of bits as an interface to navigate the world of atoms. I suspect this is due to a number of reasons. Firstly, those who have built multibillion dollar companies in the world of bits, predominantly in Silicon Valley in recent decades, don't generally come to countries like the UK encouraging its citizens to build their expertise. They are looking for captive users to increase their bottom lines or to misdirect to leave the path clear for their own companies' success. They aren't looking for skilled upstarts trying to get a foothold in their industry. This is why you see fawning discussions between say the current UK Prime Minister, Rishi Sunak and Elon Musk (November 2023) on the threats of artificial general intelligence (AGI) all while Elon Musk has a company (Neuralink) inserting chips into people's brains. If you are truly worried about AGI destroying humanity it probably isn't a great idea to give that AGI access to directly manipulate humans' brains. But this kind of discussion perfectly encapsulates the meeting of minds when the useless British upper classes meet a canny operator from Silicon Valley seeking to misdirect. Anyone with deep expertise in a scientific or technical topic will know ChatGPT spouts utter nonsense once you test its limits and poses as much danger to humanity as a single human with an IQ of 80 and without a physical body to move around in. Yet you'd have no idea of this if you listened to UK politicians and the UK media.

## Going through the ethical turnstile

Once you've honed a particular skill or built a deep expertise in a science or technology you've obtained your ticket to the game. It is difficult, it takes a long time and certainly requires more effort than declaring "I'm black, have emotions and hence should be hired to discuss those emotions". With that ticket you now enter the ethical turnstile. The first decision is where you apply your skillset. The hardest, most impactful and ultimately most financially rewarding route is to build something new from nothing. A society that cares about generating tax revenues to pay for national defense and public services (seemingly not the UK in 2024) should be encouraging the smartest and most able to pursue this route especially when the world of bits is dominated by American giants paying next to zero tax in the UK. It is the most stressful, requires round the clock focus, can't afford to succumb to the "diversity" agenda and presents a high probability of ultimate failure but within a large corporation it is next to impossible to generate millions, hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars from nothing. And if you want that large corporation to pay a reasonable rate of tax on the wealth you generate for them it is literally impossible. It may well be that without understanding a particular industry or the nature of real world problems that need solving a new graduate would be better placed learning about them within a large corporation or organization for the first few years. But the ultimate goal for the smartest and most able in a healthy society must be to create wealth from nothing. Anything less is the Mohamed Salahs and Bukayo Sakas of an industry settling with playing in the second or third tier of English football. For IT graduates or skilled software developers in 2024, the Big Tech giants like Google, Amazon, Meta are just so huge that finetuning a tiny cog at the edge of their infrastructure probably isn't good preparation for trying to build a new business from scratch a few years down the line. But want to build a technology company in health, finance, law, education, defense etc? Go work in that industry and work out where the opportunities are. Most of them are floundering in the world of bits and so the opportunities are endless. Assuming you experience some success, pick a problem that people really want solving, obtain funding, users and ultimately revenues the next ethical turnstile you go through is whether to cash in and sell to a large corporation. Almost without fail large corporations seem to acquire startups to destroy them. They present a threat to their lumbering business, they embarrass them showing what small groups of people are capable of and they catch large corporation's shareholders eyes wondering why these problems aren't getting solved within the corporation anymore. The easiest thing is to pay the startup to go away, enrich the startup founders and slowly collapse the startup within the corporation. After years of stress and round the clock focus you can't really blame the startup founders for taking the payday. Assuming they pay tax on the payday their society benefits too. But if the Big Tech giants like Google, Amazon, Meta had taken the early payday offered to them they wouldn't be around today. It is the David Goggins of the world that refuse to cave, cash in and instead continue running.

Perhaps the hardest ethical turnstile of all is the next one that presents itself. This is where you attract the attention of the state. You think the initial Twitter founders ever thought they would kick a sitting US President off their platform? You think the initial Google founders ever thought that search results would need to be tweaked to promote the "diversity" agenda? You think that the initial Amazon founders ever thought that certain books wouldn't be able to be sold because they challenged the state narrative? Or you think Elon Musk ever thought he would be chatting to UK Prime Ministers about the illusory threat of artificial general intelligence (AGI) when he was designing SpaceX rockets and Tesla cars? At this point the company is so large it is inevitable it gets infiltrated by the state. In the Bitcoin industry, the industry I'm most familiar with, I've seen the same happen to a company like Coinbase that initially created the best software for buying and selling of Bitcoin only to turn to ramming all kinds of total scams and Ponzi schemes down their customers' throats (derogatorily labelled s\*\*\*coins). I've obviously never reached this ethical turnstile or the one before it for that matter hence I don't know what I'd do or be able to do. But when the state is as incompetent and/or malicious as it is in the UK in 2024 not only do fewer and fewer people reach this ethical turnstile it is frightening what the UK state would do to them if they did. The US state is clearly far from perfect as we've seen in recent years with the evolution of these tech giants but the UK state is a complete nightmare. At least in the US they have churned out wealth generating companies before neutering them. The UK state has neutered their people's ambition before they have even started.

## The role of state education in leaving the white working classes to rot

In football the most promising kids and teenagers from all classes, races, religions etc are scouted, offered places in academies and given the support so that they have the best chance of maximizing and utilizing their potential as a professional footballer in their adult lives. They get access to the best coaches, the best training facilities and they get to compare themselves and compete with other highly talented youngsters. Do they all succeed as professional footballers? Of course not. Is it possible that a late bloomer ends up having a more successful career than someone offered an academy place at an early age? Of course. But generally today's stars in the Premier League were found early and invested in early. If they move to another club they can generate transfer fees for the original club academy that invested time and money in them. And with the connections they build with future professionals, coaches and support staff it is possible that even if they don't make it as a professional footballer they can still find a role in the industry as say an agent or coach. Compare that experience to a white working class kid in the UK who is gifted academically. He goes to the local state school, coasts, is amused by how little work he needs to do to maintain good grades, gets bored and ends up disrupting other kids' education. When the exams come around he works harder and comes out of that school top of his year. In comparison to the upper classes he gets zero support for particular admissions processes to the top universities but he gets into a decent university on the back of his grades. He spends two and a half years at that university getting drunk every night and only when his grades start dropping to concerning levels does he start studying hard and manages to leave university with a Upper Second and a Masters in a science despite his professors (barring one) previously writing him off. He then goes into the world of work as an adult with no real network to speak of on any of the key metrics that matter: wealth, influence, intelligence and ambition. It is the complete opposite experience of the gifted footballer. Is it any wonder that the Premier League is beamed into television screens all around the world while the startup scene languishes in comparison to the US or Israel? Is it a surprise that the UK state has been phasing out and banning grammar schools, the nearest equivalent to a football academy which tries to identify gifted youngsters, provide the best education programs to them and allows them to compare themselves and compete with other gifted youngsters? In a national strategy of managed decline smart, white working class kids are surplus to requirements. They don't meet the painting by numbers hiring requirements and the state doesn't care if they spend their whole lives doing minimum wage work.

Again if you truly wanted a diverse meritocracy rather than this hideous upper class oligopoly with a sprinkle of painting by numbers "diversity" what would you do differently? The first step would be to move as far away as possible from the socialist mindset that every white working class person is the same and should be subject to exactly the same education contrived by the incompetent and/or malicious state. As always in a socialist system the upper classes aren't subject to what the white working classes are subjected to. They go to fee paying schools, invest in one on one tutoring and if their kid shows a particular interest or talent for a subject they can ask a friend or pay an expert to speak to their kid about that subject. Despite the state education system and state media giving the impression that the only people that matter are royalty and politicians there are still businesses in the UK, many formed pre the national strategy of managed decline, that still and always will need skilled practitioners in science and technology. Why the state with its upper class humanities graduates thinks it should exclusively make decisions on a universal state education system is just another layer of the complacent arrogance that it shows in every aspect of its sprawling empire. There are many towns and cities especially in the north of England and Scotland that have fallen into abject poverty and present no hope or opportunity to kids growing up there. What do they have to lose by shaping their education to leave them best placed to get jobs at whatever businesses have a presence in their area? Can their prospects get any worse than they currently are? Will they really lose out by not learning about Henry VIII and World War 2 and instead learning about accountancy, business, software development, engineering, whatever skills those local businesses need? Trump asked black voters in 2016 "What do you have to lose?" These towns and cities have nothing to lose. The upper class, humanities graduates of the state have failed them and other than writing these towns and cities off as failed historical ruins they can't sink any lower. They are in a state of cardiac arrest and practically any electric jolt you can give them is better than the status quo.

Is there a role for some kind of state oversight? Of course. An education program for extremist terrorists shouldn't be allowed, nor should an education program teaching students to hate their country's history and values. An education program trying to stoke up race wars by teaching that a certain race has permanent victimhood status and another race has permanent oppressor status should be clamped down on, not that the state seems to be doing anything to clamp down on teachers spouting critical race theory in 2024. Similarly an education program encouraging kids to permanently mutilate their bodies when they go through a teenage phase should be clamped down on, again not a priority for the state in 2024 who would rather lock up the parents for protecting their kids. There are two falsehoods that the state has brainwashed generation after generation with. One is that the state cares about its citizens more than say a business. It doesn't. Businesses want your money and politicians want your vote. The state does not care about you and your family any more than a business does. The second is that the state cares about kids' welfare as much as parents and a family structure. It doesn't. There will always be cases of terrible parenting and thankfully rare cases of parental abuse of their kids. But as a generalization there is no comparison. The state does not care and parents care more than anything else about their kids. By empowering the state over parents you just ensure that terrible, indifferent parenting is the norm and muddy the waters for those good parents who left alone without state interference would ensure much better outcomes for their kids. The state is a universal incompetent and indifferent parent. Are there incompetent and indifferent parents too? Of course. But there are also competent, loving parents. And they shouldn't be in a battle with the state on how to raise and educate their kids. Again "What do you have to lose?" when you look at the depths the state has sunk to in recent years. The state would do nothing for decades as "Sir" Jimmy Savile roamed the childrens' wards and Muslim grooming gangs roamed the streets of Huddersfield. The state is not your friend and it certainly isn't your loving parent.

## Brexit - the revolution that never happened

In June 2016 the UK had a referendum on whether it should leave the European Union (EU) approximately four decades after joining (1973). As is usual with elections the media covered it 24/7, the politicians thrilled in their increased celebrity status, battle buses were bought, 33 million votes were cast and the voter turnout was a very healthy 72 percent. According to the Electoral Commission the referendum cost 129 million British pounds. Sitting in a Californian co-working space I didn't give the Brexit side a chance. All the major UK political parties opposed it, the UK state and state adjacent media opposed it, the Bank of England opposed it, the civil service refused to assist Brexit supporting politicians and the sitting US President (Barack Obama) opposed it. Obama visited the UK in person stating in a speech the UK would be at the "back of the queue" for a US trade deal if it voted for Brexit before being warmly greeted by Prince William and Prince Harry. The Canadian Bank of England governor, Mark Carney described the prospect of Brexit as the most significant risk to the UK's financial stability. (After the vote he warned leaving the EU without a deal could result in house prices crashing 30 percent.) To top it all off a MP campaigning against Brexit was shot days before the vote, a tragedy that was used to demonize Brexit supporters further. And yet despite all that the UK electorate voted by a narrow margin (52 percent to 48 percent) to leave the EU. This was a Trump sized shock and really should have been a wake up call that the UK people no longer believed the state's lies and threats. But alas. Instead Brexit was delayed in Parliament, in the upper chamber (the House of Lords) in the UK Supreme Court, no doubt by the vast majority of the civil service and only completed after another general election in December 2019 in which the now Conservative leader Boris Johnson campaigned to "Get Brexit done" as if the referendum result wasn't a clear enough instruction in the first place. Three years the UK population will never get back. Little did they know they were a year away from being subjected to the state's response to Covid and another two years of being locked up in their homes watching the daily government briefings deciding which one of their freedoms was going to be taken away on any given day. In summary I think it is fair to say Brexit did not deliver the revolution it promised and the two years of Covid lockdowns served to demolish the UK small business landscape and government finances almost as a state enforced punishment for voting the wrong way. In the upcoming national election (2024) "Sir" Keir Starmer is the strong favorite to become Prime Minister, an ardent opponent of Brexit and someone who argued for even longer, more stringent Covid lockdowns than the mere two years. Assuming he completes a full term that will end in 2028 or 2029 which will be 12 years from the Brexit referendum vote.

Now after 12 years you really should be able to see some dividends from a supposedly significant decision like leaving the EU. But for the vast majority of those 12 years the state has tried to prevent it from happening, tried to stall progress on delivering those dividends, locked the population up in their homes for two years and installed unelected leaders who seem determined not to deliver on any of the opportunities Brexit presented in the first place. It is yet another example of the slyness of the state. They haven't been able to deliver the economic crash or the property crash they warned about but they have delivered on neutering Brexit to such an extent that the electorate looks back over the last 12 years and is utterly devoid of hope that anything can be changed. Even after a once in a generation referendum in which the people managed to (somehow) deliver a result every branch of the state was determined to prevent, even after all that, barely anything changed. Northern towns and cities are still in abject poverty, third world immigrants still swamp their local areas and the potential Brexit was supposedly going to unleash is nowhere to be seen. And like that Brexit was gone. Extinguished by the usual suspects.

The Brexit vote should have led to the dismantling of the state, the bonfire of EU regulations and the chaos of a Trump first term. After taxes had poured in from all sides to fund the state machine whose primary objective was to prevent the Brexit side winning it couldn't even achieve that. Half of those taxes presumably paid by taxpayers who actually wanted the Brexit side to win and so were forced to fund the opposite of what they wanted and the opposite of what they ultimately voted for. This highlights again why your plain vanilla Trump isn't enough in the UK and you need the Trump on steroids. The state is too powerful, has its tentacles in every possible crevice and even the strawmen and strawwomen who put their faces on a campaign against the state's wishes delivered next to nothing as a result. It goes without saying that this is not the sign of a healthy country or a healthy democracy. Representatives can swan around the globe discussing their "beacon of democracy" and "mother of all parliaments" all they like but if you spend years on one particular issue, you ask your electorate to participate in a once in a generation referendum and then you don't deliver anything as a result your democracy has flatlined. You are wasting people's time and you are burning taxpayers' hard earnt money all for a political charade and an ego trip. You might as well just install a dictator for life like in China or nominally Russia, stop burning taxpayer cash and they can make the decisions on whether to stay in the EU or not.
